The uncertainties in the interaction between laser and microstructural interfaces pose a major hindrance to precision engineering in additive manufacturing. Proper assessment of the role of laser heat source types on microstructure evolution and phase transitions is crucial for understanding the process-property relationship of 3D-printed parts. To address this, we present a multiphysics computational study that explores thermal distribution, phase transformation, and meltpool flow across different laser beam profiles and free energy expressions in a unary Au system. A detailed comparison of the microstructural pathways developed under four laser beam shapes (Gaussian, Flat-Top, Ring, and Bessel) was conducted, along with two different mathematical expressions for free energy. Furthermore, a two-stage U-Net architecture was implemented using the simulation data. The initial network predicted phase from temperature inputs, achieving accuracies of 0.9992, 0.9989, and 0.9979 for training, validation and testing sets, respectively. The second stage employed temperature and phase to predict velocity, yielding MSE of 0.068, MAE of 0.079, and R
 of 0.999 on test data. For user-supplied temperature distribution array, the built primary MicroTwin can predict phase evolution, whereas a secondary FlowTwin informed by MicrosTwin’s prediction is capable of estimating velocity selectively inside the liquid meltpool domain.

Additively manufactured super duplex stainless steel (SDSS 2507) is a promising candidate for marine hardware, but its microstructure and passive-film stability are highly sensitive to post-processing. We present an integrated framework that combines experiments, physics-based modeling, and machine learning to predict corrosion performance in laser powder bed fusion (LPBF) of 2507. Coupons were printed and subjected to heat treatments: as-printed, stress-relieved at 400-550°C for 1h, and solution-annealed at 1100°C for 15 min. XRD quantified the microstructure, and the corrosion behavior was evaluated in 3.5 wt.% NaCl using CPP and EIS. Austenite fraction correlated with improved passivity and repassivation. Stress relieving at 500°C/1h gave the best balance of resistance and stability, whereas 550°C/1h caused film breakdown despite high resistance. A neural network trained on electrochemical data predicted key CPP metrics, enabling rapid screening of process-structure-property pathways for seawater-exposed LPBF SDSS 2507.

Zr-enhanced AlSiMg1.4Zr alloy fabricated via selective laser melting (P
 250 & 350 W, v
 800-1200 mm/s) exhibited a distinctive cellular substructure, accompanied by the formation of Si nanoparticles within the 
-Al matrix upon direct aging treatment (150°C-24 h). The non-uniform thermal history caused the hierarchical formation of high-density stacking faults at nanoscale and a bimodal structure at microscale, leading to a substantial improvement in the alloy’s strength while maintaining high ductility. Effects of non-uniform thermal field in the multiscale mechanical behavior of the structure has been assessed numerically by incorporating the temperature dependence of Hollomon parameters in finite element analysis and stacking fault energy (SFE) in molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. Through a materials informatics approach, it has been quantified that the Pearson correlation coefficient between SFE and temperature attributes in generic alloys is merely 0.051, underscoring the need for a physically grounded mechanical model-such as MD simulations, to rigorously capture the thermal effects on stacking fault behavior. Thus, a novel alloy design and fabrication approach has been presented in this work for overcoming the strength–ductility trade-off of aluminum alloys. This tailored design and manufacturing method ensured the ductility of AlSiMg1.4Zr alloy to 13.0% while achieving a yield strength of at least 350.0 MPa, whereas for a yield strength exceeding 425.0 MPa, it produces samples with a maximum ductility of 10.0%.

Predicting multi-generational microstructural evolution in the manifest space using convolutional-LSTM neural network models is a promising approach towards computational reducibility. Two predictive models were trained, analyzed, and compared using data generated from varying the driving force in phase-field simulations of phase decomposition in a binary alloy system. The four consecutive predicted generations exhibited microstructural similarity indices (
) of 0.994, 0.987, 0.980, and 0.967, respectively, compared to the ground truth computational results. By utilizing blobs, 
, and shape index features, we validated that the predicted images retain microstructural information down to the interfacial level. The time-aware data-driven model was applied to rapidly forecast structural changes in Pd–Rh and Cu–Mn engineering alloys.

This study introduces a combined phase-field multi-physics approach to simulate laser-induced phase transformations and microstructural evolution in the Ti-Au alloy system, which is crucial for advancing additive manufacturing processes. By varying laser parameters, such as irradiance and scan speed, we used simulations to quantify phase areas and free energy dynamics, revealing intricate interplays between heat flow and chemical diffusion. The simulations show that under maximum heat flux conditions (150 kW/cm
 at 4 nm/ms), meltpool depth reached 180 nm, surpassing the 158 nm depth observed at 134.6 kW/cm
. Moreover, the growth of Ti
Au intermetallic compound (IMC) formed due to the interfacial reaction was studied. IMC layer thickness peaked at 364 nm under higher irradiance, marking a 25% increase over lower irradiance conditions. Analysis of Lewis Number revealed that meltpool diffusion occurs more slowly than heat transfer.

To increase the strength of the laser powder-bed fusion (LPBF) Al–Si-based aluminum alloy, TiB2 ceramic particles were selected to be mixed with high-Mg content Al–Si–Mg–Zr powder, and then a novel TiB2/Al–Si–Mg–Zr composite was fabricated using LPBF. The results indicated that a dense sample with a maximum relative density of 99.85% could be obtained by adjusting the LPBF process parameters. Incorporating TiB2 nanoparticles enhanced the powder's laser absorption rate, thereby raising the alloy's intrinsic heat treatment temperature and consequently facilitating the precipitation of Si and βʺ nanoparticles in the α-Al cells. Moreover, the rapid cooling process during LPBF resulted in numerous alloying elements with low-stacking fault energy dissolving in the α-Al matrix, thus promoting the formation of the 9R phase. After a 48 h direct aging treatment at 150 °C, the strength of the alloy slightly increased due to the increase of nanoprecipitates. Both yield strength and ultimate tensile strength of the LPBF TiB2/Al–Si–Mg–Zr alloy were significantly higher than that of other LPBF TiB2-modified aluminum alloys with external addition.

This study presents an Eulerian-Lagrangian framework for the numerical analysis of spray dynamics, with a focus on droplet movement, spray-wall interactions, and the effects of varying injection parameters associated with port fuel injection (PFI) system. A grid-independent criterion is introduced to optimize mesh analysis for accurate predictions of fuel penetration length. The size distribution of secondary droplets is described using a probability density function, and statistical optimization is subsequently implemented to estimate their mean size. This probabilistic approach enhances the Lagrangian wall film (LWF) model, leading to accurate predictions of the Sauter mean diameter (SMD) at a given radial width (
), with results closely matching experimental data. For 
, the maximum SMD of 21.67 
m corresponds to 
, while the smallest SMD of 12.68 
m is computed for a radial position of 
. The numerical investigation quantifies the role of spray-wall interactions in determining the trajectory of fuel distribution, particularly in the formation of wall films and the relative spatio-temporal diesel concentration (F/A) %. The study explores aspects such as droplet size variations, heat transfer during evaporation, and film behavior under different injection pressures, providing insights into the multiphysical characteristics of spray-wall systems. Near the impingement site (
), the plume height (
) slightly decreases with an increase in injection pressure. While the CFD methodology in this current work has been primarily developed for automotive engineering sector (PFI engines), it also has potential applications in areas such as additive manufacturing, hydropower engineering, climate science, and environmental engineering.

To enhance the thermal stability of L-PBF Al-Si-Mg alloy, Fe-based metallic glass powder was mixed with Al-Si-Mg-Zr powder to fabricate a novel alloy via L-PBF. The study systematically investigated the effects of process parameters on processability and the impact of stress-relief annealing (300∘C–2h) on the microstructure and mechanical properties. Results showed that metallic glass addition improved surface quality. Plastic deformation was analysed using finite element and molecular dynamics methods. The as-built alloy had a cellular substructure with Al3Zr, Si, AlFeMgSi, and AlFeSi phases. Si nanoparticles and stacking faults were observed in α-Al cells. The as-built samples had yield strength (YS) of 249±4 MPa, ultimate tensile strength (UTS) of 434±6 MPa, and 6.3±0.3% elongation. Post-annealing, the alloy retained high strength and plasticity with YS of 255±3 MPa, UTS of 449±15 MPa, and 7.2±0.3% elongation, outperforming similar L-PBF Al-Si and Al-Si-Mg alloys.

The Ti2Cu intermetallics compound possessing an ability to release Cu2+ ions has promising antibacterial properties. This research integrates experimental and computational techniques to delve into the interfacial intermetallic (IMC) formation within the Ti6Al4V/Cu system. Heat transfer analysis is performed to numerically outline the thermal history within the microstructure during laser surface alloying (power = 1000 W and scan speed = 200 mm/s), while the phase field method is employed to describe the Ti2Cu IMC grain growth in the Ti6Al4V matrix. As the IMC and the matrix phases respectively have free energy minima of -68.52 and -61.35 kJ/mol at 
=1250.0 K, the growth of Ti2Cu IMC grains at the Ti6Al4V matrix located around the depth of 5 μm from the top surface is thermodynamically favorable. Laser processing can cause the nucleation of IMC precipitates of irregular sizes and curvature profiles, in which case the curvature driven effects between the adjacent grains can additionally affect their growth kinetics. Furthermore, microbiological assays underscore the superior antibacterial efficacy of the Ti6Al4V+Ti2Cu heterostructures as compared to the control (Ti6Al4V) counterpart.

The microstructure of the Cu6Sn5 phase plays a pivotal role in the functionality of microbumps utilized in 3D packaging. In this study, we present an experimental methodology aimed at maneuvering the orientation and morphology of Cu6Sn5 grains formed on (111) nanotwinned Cu substrate, achieved through variations in reflow temperatures (260∘C and 300∘C) and initial Cu proportion in solder (ranging from 0 to 3.0 wt%). At 300∘C and lower initial Cu concentrations (0 and 0.7 wt%), irregularly arranged roof-type Cu6Sn5 grains exhibiting a pronounced 
 texture were observed. Conversely, typical scallop-type Cu6Sn5 grains displaying a specific preferential 
 texture were identified at this temperature for Cu concentrations of 1.5 and 3.0 wt% At 260∘C, the scallop-type morphology was solely present at all Cu composition variants. The differing rates of solute controlled intermetallic phase clustering mechanism at altered solubility limits and magnitudes of thermodynamic driving force for different temperatures, can decide the relative loss of interface coherency and subsequently change the preferred orientation direction of evolving interfacial structures. Our findings demonstrate that the precise control over soldering temperature, solder Cu composition, and the microstructure of Cu UBM can enable the attainment of Cu6Sn5 microstructure with a designated orientation and morphology.

Through the multi-phase field method, this research explores microstructure evolution within the Al-Cu-Ni system comprising Al-rich FCC, Al 2 Cu, and Al 3 Ni intermetallic compounds (IMCs). Notably, the Al 3 Ni exhibits substantial growth due to its higher free energy magnitude, while the Al 2 Cu phase diminishes within the FCC matrix. Additionally, this study investigates the impact of heterogeneous elastic effects on these microstructural changes. Density functional theory calculations were employed to determine temperature-dependent elastic tensor at a simulation temperature of 723 K. Initially both cases, simulations with elastic constants at 0 K and 723 K, start with identical grain areas. But by 21.45 ms, deviations notably intensify to 18.18% for single grains, underlining the importance of temperature-calibrated elastic tensor in the phase evolution driven by elastochemical effects.

Located around the center of multicomponent phase space, multi-principal element alloys (MPEAs) are often characterized with a unique blend of contrasting physico-chemical properties, and have a good prospective of presenting hardness-ductility synergy. A datasets of MPEAs fabricated by casting, wrought, sintering, annealing procedures, was collected and the mean values for hardness and elongation was determined as 495.3 HV and 22.16 % respectively. After screening and processing the datasets with the help of feature selection by tools such as Pearson’s correlation coefficient, multicollinearity analysis and principal component analysis, artificial neural networks (ANNs) were subsequently trained in this study. An ensemble of these networks known as AlloyManufacturingNet was then purposed as the prediction toolkit for the inverse alloy design in applications including metamorphic manufacturing. During the in-silico design of external elements doped ZrHfNb and VNbTa alloys for maximum hardness, the model has estimated that Cr0.4W0.5(ZrHfNb)0.1 and Cr0.5W0.3(VNbTa)0.2, both fabricated by sintering method, show hardness values of 684.49 and 733.42 HV respectively. While Ti0.7(ZrHfNb)0.3 prepared via annealing procedure shows the largest elongation of 43.52 % in the category of ZrHfNb-derived alloys, Mo0.1Ti0.8(VNbTa)0.1 processed through the wrought process is estimated to have a maximum elongation of 34.36 % in the group of VNbTa-derived alloys. For establishment of the hardness-ductility synergy as required in structural applications, the composition spaces for given manufacturing routes have been searched with the machine learning model. In general, the MPEAs derived from base VNbTa alloy tend to perform better in context of possessing composition values having both the hardness and ductility above the aforementioned mean values. The machine learning based estimation was done in another MPEA, namely, CoCrNiNbx alloy to quantify the change in hardness with the change in Nb content, and the mechanistic insights were obtained via molecular dynamics simulations.

Piezoelectric devices offer numerous opportunities for sustainable harvesting of wasted mechanical energy, leading to a significant interest in data-driven research on these materials. This study presents the design of PiezoTensorNet, a comprehensive framework that encompasses a hierarchical classification neural network for crystal point group determination and modular ensembles of regression-based multi-dimensional models for predicting piezoelectric tensors. The machine learning models capable of forecasting tensors for dopant element alloying and various crystallographic transformations is integrated along with finite element analysis for electromechanical performance evaluation. The efficacy of integrated toolkit is demonstrated through the computational design and discovery of a lead-free microelectromechanical system based on AlN. The introduction of Boron and Erbium dopants in AlN enhances its piezoelectric performance, particularly when the crystal undergoes rotations along a preferred axis. Specifically, under a vertical loading of 5 × 10−5 N/m
 applied to a cantilever beam, the preferentially oriented B0.3Er0.5Al0.2N material generates a power 9.96 times larger than that of AlN ceramics.

Tailoring the microstructural design of a metastable two-phase Ti-Cr dental implant alloy with the optimal quantity of Cr-rich LAVES structure requires an integration of computation with informatics. This research introduces a stepwise process for generating alloy microstructure data using the phase field method, followed by sparsification and tensor computation techniques to reconstruct a microstructural informatics database for Ti-Cr alloy. This results in a significant 28-fold reduction in data size. Characterized by inpainting accuracies of 94.38% (Tucker decomposition) and 90.38% (Canonical Polyadic), the Tucker method is declared as the superior one in preserving microstructural elastic deformation information. The findings suggest that tensor computation methods present a robust strategy for accurately reconstructing complex microstructures, offering valuable insights for the digital manufacturing of Ti-Cr dental implant alloy.

Based on their construction or working principles, biosensors, biomimetic sensors, and bioapplicable sensors may have been understood differently, but everyone acknowledges their commonality of sensing in fields that require knowledge of biochemical science and engineering. In the era of big data and industry 4.0, the amalgamation of artificial intelligence (AI) technology and the Internet of Things (IoT) with the applied science of sensing is seen as a way forward to achieve unprecedented growth in the design and development of novel and robust biochemistry-related sensors. The integration of AI with sensing technology makes it possible to produce sensors that can rapidly detect targets while maintaining high sensitivity, accuracy, and precision, all at a cost-effective price point. This work reviews recent literature on the applications of AI tools to accelerate the advancement of intelligent biosensors. Also, it projects how novel AI tools such as digital twins, machine vision, robotics, natural language processing, and text mining will transform the design and broaden the applicability of biosensors, bio-inspired sensors, and bioapplicable sensors.

3D printing, also known as Additive manufacturing (AM), has emerged as a transformative technology with applications across various industries, including the medical sector. This review paper provides an overview of the current status of AM technology, its challenges, and its application in the medical industry. The paper covers the different types of AM technologies, such as fused deposition modeling, stereolithography, selective laser sintering, digital light processing, binder jetting, and electron beam melting, and their suitability for medical applications. The most commonly used biomedical materials in AM, such as plastic, metal, ceramic, composite, and bio-inks, are also viewed. The challenges of AM technology, such as material selection, accuracy, precision, regulatory compliance, cost and quality control, and standardization, are also discussed. The review also highlights the various applications of AM in the medical sector, including the production of patient-specific surgical guides, prosthetics, orthotics, and implants. Finally, the review highlights the Internet of Medical Things (IoMT) and artificial intelligence (AI) for regulatory frameworks and safety standards for 3D-printed biomedical devices. The review concludes that AM technology can transform the healthcare industry by enabling patients to access more personalized and reasonably priced treatment alternatives. Despite the challenges, integrating AI and IoMT with 3D printing technology is expected to play a vital role in the future of biomedical device applications, leading to further advancements and improvements in patient care. More research is needed to address the challenges and optimize its use for medical applications to utilize AM's potential in the medical industry fully.

Intermetallics such as Ti3Au are characterised by improved mechanical properties and reduced susceptibility to corrosion. This study extensively blends the techniques of process simulation by finite element analysis, light microscopy, scanning electron microscopy, energy dispersive spectroscopy and structural roentgenography analysis to investigate the interfacial intermetallics (IMC) in Au-Ti system. Ti was electrochemically coated with a micrometric layer of gold and then laser-treated in a wide range of parameters. Variability included both the laser beam power and the beam feed rate. The experimental results confirm that the formation of an intermetallic Ti3Au phase is possible. Finite element method was employed to numerically estimate the transient temperature values at the Au-Ti interface during laser treatment. At laser power 100 W and scan speed of 1.5 mm/s, the interfacial temperature reached a magnitude larger than the melting point of Ti for a duration less than 5.0 ms. The decrease of scan speed to 1.0 mm/s for constant P, increased this duration up to 97.0 ms where both provided sufficient energy for convection-based reaction at the interface. Through nanoscale molecular dynamics simulation, it has been revealed that during nanoindentation, Ti and Au atoms of Ti3Au IMC exert a larger resistance force to the indenter as compared to the atoms of pure Ti material. The IMC material not only offers a more robust mechanical response during indentation but also exhibits superiority over pure Ti material in a corrosion test.

Microstructure of interfacial intermetallics plays an important role in determining the service performance and reliability of interconnects especially due to the anisotropic properties of intermetallic grains, preferential growth of intermetallics induced by the electric current is observed in experiments, but the exact mechanisms for this have not been understood completely. For this endeavor, a phase field model considering the free energy arisen from the applied electric current is developed to tackle the intermetallic grain growth behavior in Sn/Cu interconnects, the focus falls on the influence of anisotropic electric conductivity. Simulation results show that electric current stressing preferentially accelerates the intermetallic growth, and the orientation effects are more pronounced with higher value of electric current density. Due to the competitive growth of multiple Cu6Sn5 grains in the presence of electric current, most region of the intermetallic layer is occupied by the grains whose c-axis is along the direction of the electric current. The intermetallic grain with higher electric conductivity along the electron flow holds smaller current field, while the phase boundaries own higher electric field. It is found that the higher local electric field concentrating at phase boundary drives faster phase boundary migration. The data generated from physics-based phase field simulations are utilized to train a neural network model that functionally maps the area of a particular grain with the applied current density, simulation time, grain identification, orientation of the grain and its neighboring grains. The prediction model reveals that that electric current stressing preferentially accelerates the intermetallic growth, and the orientation effects are more pronounced with higher value of electric current density. The results from phase field simulation and physically informed machine learning model further deepen understandings of the microstructure evolution and selective intermetallic growth in the context of electric current, and shed light on the in-silico studies and design route of interconnects under other types of loadings.

Though the martensitic transformation has been a commonly investigated topic in the field of experimental and computational materials science, the understanding of this mechanism in a variety of alloys is yet far from complete. In this era of Industry 4.0, there have been ongoing trends on employing machine learning (ML) techniques for the study of the martensitic alloys, and such data-driven approaches are expected to unravel a great amount of information about the process-structure-property behaviour relationship in this class of materials. However, with the availability of a large variety of datasets and with an option to use different ML models, a bulk amount of information has already been generated with regard to martensitic alloys. The discovery and design of shape memory alloys can be accelerated if the multi-principal element functional alloys and martensitic transformation phenomenon are studied extensively using machine learning techniques. Thus, it is necessary to highlight the major categories or aspects of these alloys that have been predicted with ML. The present work performs a state-of-the-art review on the machine learning models developed for the quantification of aspects such as martensitic start temperature (Ms), materials properties, microstructure, mechanisms etc., on the alloys.

In the electronic packaging and energy storage sectors, the study of Cu6Sn5 intermetallic compound (IMC) is getting more attention. At temperatures above 186 °C, this IMC exists in a hexagonal closed packed (HCP) crystalline structure. Crystal plasticity finite element simulations are performed on Cu6Sn5 IMC by taking the information about its lattice parameters and direction dependent elastic properties. Three types of models corresponding to deformations in basal, prismatic and pyramidal modes are developed. With the same type of loading in the elastic regime and boundary conditions, the results of the computations reveal the differences in displacement magnitudes among the three model types.

Transient liquid phase bonding under temperature gradient in electronics interconnections yields intermetallic grains at the bonding interface with different morphological features compared with conventional soldering process. However, the interfacial reactions due to the thermal gradient that result in the preferential growth of intermetallics are yet to be fully understood. In this study, incorporating with the thermotransport effect a multiphase field model is developed to elaborate the fundamental growth mechanism of Cu6Sn5 intermetallic in the Sn/Cu solder interconnect under temperature gradient. We particularly account for the effect of orientation and anisotropic thermal conductivity of Cu6Sn5 intermetallic grains in relation to the temperature gradient during their growth, as observed thermal conductivity with the c-axis of Cu6Sn5 intermetallic parallel to the gradient can be 1.6 times of those perpendicular to the gradient. Simulation results show that the temperature gradient can accelerate the growth of the Cu6Sn5 phase, as reported in the experiments. The heat flux is mainly conducted through the intermetallic grain with c-axis parallel to the temperature gradient, causing faster growth of the grain than the grain with c-axis perpendicular to the temperature gradient; the growth rate difference of the two types of grains becomes more pronounced under high temperature gradient. It is revealed that the faster and preferential growth of this type of intermetallic grain is attributed to the higher thermomigration induced diffusion flux and accompanying faster atomic interdiffusion process, especially near the solder/intermetallic interface.

Multi-principal element alloys (MPEAs) are characterized by a high-dimensional materials design space, and data-driven models can be considered as the best tools to describe the structure–property relationship in this class of materials. Predicting the prevalence of an intermetallic (IM) phase in a high-entropy alloy (HEA) regime of MPEAs has become a very important research direction recently. In this work, Automatic Featurization capability has been deployed computationally to extract composition and property features from the datasets of MPEAs. Data visualization has been performed, and through principal component analysis, the relative impacts of the input features on the two principal components have been specified. Artificial neural network is then trained upon the set of compostion, property and phase information features. A GUI interface is subsequently developed on top of the prediction model to enable the user-friendly computer environment for detection of the IM phase in a compositionally complex alloy.
